As New Yorkers branch out beyond sushi and ramen, restaurants and markets offer specialties to mark the occasion
For many New Yorkers, the new year is best celebrated with the traditional glass of Champagne.
 But for a growing number, the occasion is reserved for such specialties as herring roe, sweetened soybeans or a rolled omelet. 
Those dishes are among the items typically featured in the elaborate Japanese spread known as osechi ryori (osechi for short), which is enjoyed on Jan. 1. But the feasting begins even earlier: On New Years Eve, the Japanese custom is to eat soba (buckwheat)noodles. which are dubbed toshikoshi ("year-crossing") soba for the occasion. 
These days, such offerings, once devoured almost exclusively by  Japanese expats the greater metropolitan area, are becoming known to a broader array of New Yorkers. A number of Japanese restaurants and markets feature them, and such establishments say demand is sometimes coming from non- Chef Kakusaburo Sakurai at work at Wasan Brooklyn, Japanese customers. 
They include Wasan Brooklyn, a restaurant in the borough's Park Slope neighborhood that prepares a to go osechi feast, with three trays of items, starting at $230. Toshiyuki Koizumi, one of the restaurant's owners said that when Wasan, originally located in Manhattan, first offered its osechi a few years ago, it filled 15 orders.
 Now, it sells out of its allotment of 130 orders.It would prepare more, but the process becomes too labor intensive, Mr Koizumi added "Our philosophy is we're not only serving food, were serving Japanese culture,"he said. 
Meanwhile, at Katagiri, the Japanese market with two locations in Manhattan, soba is an especially popular item in December. The store’s original location, on East 59th Street, sells 10 times the amount of buck- wheat noodles in the final month of the year versus the other l1 months, according to manager Masami Inoue.
 In almost all cases. The New York’s food carry special meaning in Japanese culture. Soba noodles, for example, can symbolize fortune.  The herring roe in the osechi is a reminder of the importance of fertility.
 Some Japanese establishments in the city aren’t above inventing their own traditions for the new year. Sushi Noz, a high-end restaurant on Manhattan' s Up- per East Side, is offering deluxe to-go $135 platters of chirashi. the classic dish that features fish over rice. 
Chef and partner Nozomu Abe admits he is bending the New Year's culinary rules, but he said chirashi is"easy to share and so it is perfect for a family or friends gathering."His instincts are evidently right, since he had to extend the cutoff time for orders because of a surge of last-minute requests.
Either way, the interest in Japanese fare for the new year likely speaks to the city's growing fascination with the cuisine overall, say many food professionals. 
It wasn't that long ago New Yorkers' knowledge of the country's offerings didn't extend beyond sushi and ramen. Now, they are branching to discover specialties such as Japanese-style curry  rice and the multicourse meal known as kaiseki.
 New Yorkers may also be thinking globally for the new year since the city doesn’t necessarily have its own culinary traditions associated with the holiday. Or so says Sakura Yagi, chief operating officer of TIC Restaurant Group, a New York company that operates several Jananese establishments. TIC's Sobaya, which is known for its soba noodles, does an especially big business around the holiday, with special to- go offerings as well.
 Ultimately, many Japanese establishments say the market for New Year's fare is still primarily Japanese customers or those New Yorkers who are highly familiar with the country and its cuisine. Osechi spreads and even New Year's soba haven’t quite reached sushi-level popularity, after all. 
To that end, SakaMai, a Lower East Side Japanese restaurant, has decided to offer a complimentary dish of soba to all its New Year’s Eve diners. It may not make financial sense, but it is in the interest of education and it fits the mood of celebration, explained SakaMai general manager Karen Lin.
“We just feel like we want everyone to experience it,” she said.
